---
title: "Welcome to APIs.io"
url: "http://apievangelist.com/2023/12/05/welcome-to-apis-io/"
date: "2023-12-05T00:00:00Z"
author: ""
feed_url: "https://developer.apis.io/atom.xml"
---
APIs.io is the first API search engine. Built on top of the APIs.json specification, APIs.io empowers API producers to publish APIs.json indexes of their API operations. APIs.json provides metadata about each API being published, but also the things humans need to put APIs to work like a sign-up, documentation, and pricing page, but also the things other systems will need like an OpenAPI or JSON Schema artifact. APIs.io was first launched alongside the APIs.json specification, but is now being rebooted in 2023. The APIs.json Specification APIs.json is a specification format for defining your API operations, allowing you to maintain a machine-readable index of your public or private API landscape. The specification was created in 2014, and is something we have moved forward incrementally over the years, but have recently found more energy for lately as the API landscape continues to expand. Specification (Website) - The current JSON or YAML format you can put into any well-known location. Builder (Website) - A form for building APIs.json files quickly using a simple single page application. Artisanal (Repo) - A growing number of hand-crafted artisanal APIs.json for top API providers today. This work on the APIs.json specification is important. Code tends to be ephemeral in my experience, and the specifications are what matter over any specific open-source or code implementation that may come or go over the years, however tooling are also essential for the adoption of the specification, so we can’t just stop there. APIs Powering APIs.io APIs.io is primarily just an API, or more accurately, a suite of APIs. Because any honest API specification, service, and tooling should be API-first, APIs.io is API-first. APIs.io is powered by ten separate APIs that all work in concert to help solve the API discovery across the realm of public APIs. These APIs all live in their own repositories, with their own documentation, and other resources, making for a buffet of API discovery solutions. Engine (Documentation)) (Repo) - The API that actually pulls and processes the APIs.json files and the APIs they contain. Rules (Documentation)) (Repo) - A collection of YAML Spectral rules that identify healthy APIs.json and OpenAPI patterns. Ratings (Documentation)) (Repo) - Apply rules and other criteria to APIs.json and and OpenAPI to rate on overall quality. Linter (Documentation)) (Repo) - The API that takes the rules, applies them to APIs.json and OpenAPI, returning results. Maintainers (Documentation)) (Repo) - An API for managing the maintainers that are publishing the different APIs.json. Properties (Documentation)) (Repo) - Another API for managing all of the API and common properties in each APIs.json. Tags (Documentation)) (Repo) - The API for managing, enhancing, and making sense of the tags being applied to APis.json. Publishing (Documentation)) (Repo) - An API for publishing API indexes to static single page applications hosted on GitHub. Search (Documentation) (Repo) - The API that actually provides a search on top of all of the APIs in which the engine indexes. Authentication (Documentation) (Repo) - An API for authentication and generating a token so you...
